【Keywords】
heel
I can't, my high heels are killing me.
tip
Another exercise is moving items in front of the tip of your nose so your eyes can adjust focus. Doing this helps exercise your eye muscles.
massage
If these people also suffer from insecurity, then you may need to massage their egos a little during those rare times when they get something right.
reflexology
The origins of Reflexology reach back to ancient Egypt.
Swiss
Vaults thought to contain drawings and manuscripts by the late Franz Kafka are to be opened soon at a Swiss bank.
missionary
James Hudson Taylor is a very well-known missionary to China.
clinic
To celebrate this occasion, his son-in-law Li Jing-liang held a birthday party in his own clinic on September 12th.
session
When the brain senses pressure, it exercises muscles to increase blood circulation in order to achieve the effect of relaxing and calming the body.
【Phrase】
Grin and bear it. (Idiom)
I hate having to work for rude people. I guess I have to grin and bear it.
What doesn't kill you makes you stronger. 

blood circulation (phrase) 
Poor blood circulation can affect your body significantly.
Hang in there. (Idiom)
All relationships go through rough times. You just have to hang in there.
Sign up (phr.)
Mr. Lin is teaching Math this year. I have to go sign up for that class!

The Painful Pleasure of Taiwanese Foot Massage
John and his foreign colleague Emily, who has just been transferred to Taiwan, are at a foot message clinic.
(Emily:) Ouch!!
(John:) Grin and bear it! What doesn't kill you makes you stronger, right?
(Emily:) How is this pain helping me?
(John:) Each part of the foot relates to a different body part. The heel relates to the middle of your body, and the tips of your toes to your brain.
(Doctor:) Your friend's right. So, a problem in the foot means a problem in the related body part. This is how your body communicates important messages to you.
(Emily:) Sounds like Chinese medicine.
(John:) Actually, the foot massage in Taiwan today, which is called reflexology, was introduced by a Swiss missionary in the late 1970's. Now it seems like there are as many reflexology clinics as convenience stores!
(Emily:) Owwww!
(Doctor:) It can help increase blood circulation. Hang in there. It's almost done!
(5 minutes later)
(Emily:) Thank God it's over! Wow! I was doubtful at first, but now I feel more relaxed. Thank you, doctor.
(Doctor:) You're welcome. So, will you come back again?
(Emily:) Sure thing. Sign me up for another relaxing torture session!
