What’s the meaning of life?
1.01^999 (1.01 to the 999th power)
How much wood would a woodchuck chuck if a woodchuck could chuck wood?
What are the nine planets in the solar system?
How far is the Mars?
How long should it take to the Mars?
Navigate me to the nearest MacDonald.
How many teeth does a child have?
How many permanent teeth does a man have?
Where is Taiwan?
What’s the capital of Taiwan?
Who’s the president of Taiwan?
What is the population of Taiwan?
Convert Chinese Yuan to Taiwan dollars.
Convert US dollars to Taiwan dollars.
Convert 130 pounds into kilograms.
Convert 82 degree Fahrenheit to Celsius.
What does the fox say?
What is 18887/1111?
Who’s the president of United States?
How old is he?
How many children does he have?
How many wives did he marry to?
How to spell confidential.
c o n f i d e n t i a l?
in Chinese
‘Think on your feet’ meaning?
‘I love you’ in Chinese
What is the life span of a person in Taiwan?
What is the life span of a person in the world?
When is Friday the 13th?
Show me the nearby restaurants. 

What comes down but never goes up?
What goes up but never comes down?
What’s the difference between recycle bin and rubbish bin?
What’s the difference between garbage and trash and rubbish?
What is a machine?
Tell me about alpha go.
Who is Sophia the robot?
What is humanoid robot?
What is social robot?
Tell me about tensorflow.
How to pronounce n e u r o n?
Can you sing a song for me?
I'm particularly proud of how I organised the finances for the debating society. 
We had a very small budget and I had to make decisions on what to buy.
A good example that comes to mind is when I was involved with a campaign to promote and sell a new range of clothes.

show me the airlines to Japan in 24 hours？
what is the average height of a woman in Taiwan？
how many countries have diplomatic relationship with Taiwan？
how many 7-Eleven convenience stores are in Taiwan？
how many motorcycles are in Taiwan？
What to prepare for self-help travel?
how long will it take for Earth rotation
where is a Shiba dog from?
the average age of a pregnant woman in Taiwan
what cities are in Taiwan?
what to eat for lunch?
