People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity.

There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline.

In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more.

As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses.

They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons.

An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists.

Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner.

Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath.

Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition.

In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet.

Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival.

They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe.

Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year.

While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full!

If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body.

Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today.

Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base.

Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke.

Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide.

As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records.

Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements.

Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers.

He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity.

Jesus sojourned many days in the desert.

She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years).

His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished.
