processing CBF110056 宋尚勳... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time, say the Japanese are gradually influenced by the spirit of basheitos and display great torment in the face of the first day. There are rumors that they will be another wave of unimplumin after lunar New Year next year and real estate price has been on a continuity climb. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque side of classic dodge, architectures and 18 and 19 centuries-thatch, drift houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone-robbing, tough figurines and demonstrations on how to make your own lived skeleton. A European philosopher has come up with commitment for a third-year. Mostly from the private center, but also from government subsidy, they hope to start a grassroots culture movement for sustainable urban development. You know, a revenue-made Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a straw in the submarine or springing roast pets during a bath. We Apple accused Samsung of pets and trademark infringement and unfair competitions. In Britain's, where office workers often go for a pub, lunch for a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began to decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest part and ex-a-partender to create a cocktail called a volcano and land right down the recipe. Now, 70% of the mobile technology adequate has worsened over the last year. Well, you are several food. Remember that in Thailand, eating is a commercial experience. Everybody showed the dish and it's at the leisure path as the food. The small talk and the better keep coming, just do not talk with your mouth full. If one tries to induce vomiting or use one finger or any utensil to decal the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hot tub has been around for over a thousand years. There are lamb hot tub from the north, seafood hot tub from the self-tank host, and spicy hot tub from the Sichuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Sichuan hot tub started with the pork pork, workers and fishermen along the Genzi river. They could only afford cheap cup of meat and ovens. So they hit the taste of the meat with spice, but today the hot tub from Sichuan is renounced for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers are the top US hospital is experimenting to see whether a drug base on the spice term can help patients who have suffering a stroke. Two are invited a self-pastying stroke book and a building printing press, but he also inventing a gestural scrap for closed they still induced. This elastic scrap with a clasp was meant to in place built for all kinds of closes, such as pets and dressing. Today, the easy to adjust scrap is used to in the procedure or bar. Modern woman can think too and for replacing the last handy buttons and straps with the conventions claps still used it in most of bars worldwide. As it can considering once of the best piece of furniture made for the road over the year, it was no surprise that the piece said record. Most of his skin grip is still needed to wear a elastic body soup and her wood have really in convention his movement. Although the threats, queens and even the god in anxious exceptions, paintings are sure when we think ice make up. It was no exclusively for royalty or the rich even the labor who built the parents. Warn it. In fact, an archaeologist has found makeup buttons and applications toys used by these workers. He did that to graphally his glove-flam vantines. Jesus' sword should join many days in the desert. She died in the house of his owner in the serpent of New York in the United States at 21 years of age, the equipment of 147 human years. He oversees of patients, friendship, love and revenge was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 85.0830078125
總得分：85
--------- end of 0 --------------------
processing CBF110034 李玉萍... 
 People who have played in Japan for long time, say that Japanese are gradually used by the spirit of Gushido and spread current tolerance in the face of the ventricly. They are numerous, they will be another wealth of unrepairment. After Luna, New Year, next year. Unreal is dead, but has been on a continuous decline. In the early 2000s, the type of government, create this low-to-make people more aware of their coverage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you grow along, you can take the pictures to size of classes. Artature and age teams and 19th century led to the growth of classes, playing blue, retail challenges, growing stone-dropings, fuel-pinguines, and demonstrations on how to map your own rich state-lot-tons. A EU-LUF and a village of Heskown, out with power-mendants for a list, mostly from the private sector, but also from government, government, subside. I hope to start a quest-loss cultural movement for stands for our burn. People moment, you know, we met Japanese yesterday, and just around the corner. In the early 2000s, Leia has been no sign of revival. Leia will also talk to go to the New Year's list near Respa and ask a partner to create a co-critical, legal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, vocal, around 75% stand-mobly technology, it credits the world's spin over the last year. While you are suffering the food, remember letting Thailand eat in East Auckland, come you know, experience everybody's just look at it and eat at the. There's surely a pair of the food, the small talk and the vendor keep coming, just don't talk with your mouth full. If one tries to ing use more meaning or just one fingers or any occasion to dig our medicine or mind-course greater damage to one's body, Chinese Harper has been around for over a thousand years. Leia is the lamb, lamb Harper from the north, seafood Harper from the south coasts, and spicy Harper from south to south to south to south to south to south. Which is what we have been today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the puff, a pair and tea. So this and Harper started with the two-part workers and fish film and fishermen along the young river. They could only afford cheap parts of meat and oven, so they had a high test of the meat with spices. But today, Harper from south to south to south is we want for is so basic and surface medical research and a top US hospital experience to see whether a drug vest on the spicy tube marker can help Zhang to see whom he has to cover stroke. high-one invention on the souther links, cloth book and a pale pending spirit Oscar at the at the just up. Strat, Strat for course. Let is still in use with the big strap with a classic boss mean to replace fast for all kinds of course, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy to adjust Strat is used in the dressier of bra. More than woman can dance to win for the cleansing, the less handy buttons and straps with the convenience. Comemien claps still used in a mouse, or bras worldwide. As you can see, the one of the best pieces of fortune, mat for royalty over the years. It was not surprised that the pace, the pace set recorders because of her skin grip, to stay on his way and let's stay on his way. And her longest had really income, then in communist movement. Although the Paris, Queen's and even the gods in a sense, he's 10, hanging our shoulders, take our makeup. It was not actually a relationship for royalty, or the rich, even the laborers who built it, the reminiscence was it. In fact, alcohol. No, alcohol is. Have found makeup bottles and a application to us use by these workers. It can not to gratify his girlfriend when many people. She says, so-called, she's a very unique man, and he says in a dessert to die in the house for all of her own in a sufferer, sufferer of New York in the United States at 21 years of age, the equivalent of 147 humans, ears. His old disease of passion, friendship, love and re-ventitude, was now, friends, when was not finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 59.375
總得分：59
--------- end of 1 --------------------
processing CBF110057 梁詠鈞... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time since the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirits of Poshido and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wealth of employment after Lunar New Year. And real-est her prices have been out of continual decline. In early 2000s, the type of government created this low-to-maxed people more aware of new garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you've got alone, you can take in the picture, picturesque size of classic, dodge, architecture and artisans and 90s sentry ledge. Luf houses. The included little challenges, roof-laying, stone robings, stone figurines, and the most special are how to make your own live skeletons. A European philosopher has come out with common demands for a suits. Most vulnerable private sector, but also from government, sub-stuck cities, they called to start a quest-roost cultural movement for sub-stabble urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just a wrongly common. romantic gestures that make ink holding hands during a store in the summer and sprinkling growth petals during a fast. Apple occult sensor of patents and trademark infringement and unfair competition. The reason, who office workers often go for a pop lounge with a pint of beer. This is even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its tackle, stick a line in 2006, there has been no time for revival. There were also tall-to-golder nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called a bookendom and then write down a recipe. Around 75% said, mobile technology, itcreds has wasn't over the last year, while you're severing the food. Remember that, in Thailand, eating is a common, communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely. Pass a stop-food with motoc and a benton-kiped coming, just don't talk with your months for. In front, try to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any use utensils to dig all the medicine. One of my co-scrater damage to Westbody. Chinese harpa has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamp-hop parfongler knows. See-through harpa from the Southern coast. And spices harpa from Sichuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the books. Apparently, Sichuan harpa's dirty with the poor prods, rucous and fisherman along the Yens' river. Then, could only afford cheap cuts of meat and oven. So, they hit the test of the meat with spices. But today, the harpa from Sichuan is renewed for its surface to cater to best. Medical researchers at a top U.S. top hospital are spring, ranging to sequitur drug-based on-lust-bicycle, turmeric, king-held patient who have suffered a stroke. Taiwan invented self-pastings, scrapbook and a failed printing press. But, it also invented and adjustable, strengthful crosses that are used. The elastic thread with a cast was re-tool-repaired, bills for all kinds of courses, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy tool of the just-strap is to use in love for sear. Obrough. Motherwoman can sing Taiwan for replacing low, less handy buttons and straps with the convenient, so class still use a almost open obrough. Obrough is good right. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the use, it was no surprise that the paste set records. Because her skin graft, she still need to wear an elastic body suit and her work once have really inconvenience for inconvenience her movement. A lot of, for trace, greens and even the casting agent, Egyptian, painting, artoral, shown, wear-re-seek eye makeup. It was not exclusively for royalty over the rich, even the liberals who bills the pure-myed pure-meas were it. In fact, archaea not just have found makeup at all. And application tools used by these workers. It is not to clarify his girlfriend's vanity. Jesus, soldier many days in a desert, she died in the house of her own. In a sub-serve of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age, the equivalents for 147 human years. He is the other sea of patient, friendship, love and revenge was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 78.125
總得分：78
--------- end of 2 --------------------
processing CBF110001 陳東陽... 
 In the early 2000s, the Taipei government grew at least long to make the material more aware of their cargyggy and to encourage you then to less torque more. As you cry alone, you can take in a bit of risk size of classic Dutch architecture and taking at night is central Loch houses. That included little charges to be swearing, ahí engloving, go figurines and imitation, on how to make your own leaf scaler. Kang Aoi Commandments for Aries. Most of the movies sector also found Garmin sub-sacce. They help to scar a great loot. Cultural movement found. Satsake ball. Urban. Divide. You know, a real bad Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. So, make sure that make the crew holding head-scuring a store in the summer run. Or... Spring-cory, growth, pet hole during a place. Fae-pong of Q's sensor of pet, pet, and track-mark in infusion run and unfair competition. In critical, fuel office workers are one goal for a tarp lunch with a pie or beer. The Steven-Hard Harder for people to skate to die. Since the Taiwanese car market began to decline in 2006, they had been on the side of. Reliable. They will also talk to Garmin to the May-Oise-Spa and Exca. Retender to create a car-tail. Call the McConnell and then file down the recipe. Along, 75% Same mobile technology. Equipped. Has. Rawson, Rawson, over your next year. Why are you are? Say, Rering, love food. Remember, let it. Thailand. Taking a... Premium love is special. Everybody shall love issues. And eat at a big, truly past-ass love food. A small talk. And when the keep coming, just don't talk with your master's work. If one tries to induce the making or use one finger or any, you can solve to get out of the negative. What might cause greater damage to one sparking? Chinese have had been around for over a year. There are Lent, Hapa, Fung, Nose. Seafood, Hapa, Fung, Sabe, Kost. And spicy, Hapa, Fung, Sushuad. Which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, since Han, Hapa start with poor poor workers and fishermen along the... In prison, river. The only answer for it is C Thank the locals ofきゅo Pau or so 서해 hi옌, Me and Oppo. So let's talk about the 같이 Dun's special. Today, Hapa version explain-how. realised that 3 million four fishermen are are the next 1 million and each of them are. No, no, I'm ok. can so best. Mayor Sir, make a call, reach research at the top US. Hospital are inspiring to see whether a drug best or a spice drug to make can help patient or have several to track. Training in men, self-pacing, to track book and veil-pranking press. But he also in men and adjustable strap for calls that is still it used. This elastic track with a cross was meant to replace press for all kinds of calls such as pen and just jessies. Okay, easy to adjust strap is used in a procedure or draw. More, more than all men can sing. Toon for repressing the less handy buttons and strap with a carrying press with scale use in almost all-brow or wide. And you can be consider one of the best pieces of culture, metaphor, low-yaki over a year. It was not priced at the piece set record. First of all, asking, quote, she is going to wear a strap in a basket, body, suit, and her would have really in-coming her movements. All-order, fucked, far-one, crints, and even a guard in action. And, as you're growing sick, I make up. He wasn't, it's cute to be for royalty or rich, even a noble who, beyond a pyramid, was in fret. Art of largest, a fun makeup, art of and application to use by this worker. He is led to Quest Gregory, a great fly. Peace, girl friends, men, okay. Jesus, Jesus, so, so many guys in the deserves. She died in the house of her own in the suburb of New York in the United States and the one ear of Edge. The equal of 147 human ear. So, he's outside of pageant, friendship, love and revenge was new, finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 55.126953125
總得分：55
--------- end of 3 --------------------
processing CBF110037 蕭宜瑄... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time, cellulogy pennies are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido. And this practical tolerance in the back of the diversity. There are rumors that there will be a null web of climate after lunar new year next year. And real estate prices have bring on a continued decline. In the early 2000s, the type of government created this road to make people more aware of land garbage and to encourage land to recycle more. Also, you'll gladly along, you can take in the picture-risk size of glass-dodge architecture and paintings and 19th-century-legs of the houses. There include little challenges, rural paintings, stone robes, during the green-sam demonstrations. How to make your own lives, skeletons? Urring was of has come out with government for artists. Most of the people from the private sector, but also from government subside. They hope to stop our crisis through cultural movement for sustainable urban development. You know, our relative, Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures may make include holding hands during a stroller somewhere around. Or, spikling raw potatoes during a bath. Apple occurred some sort of pentan and chatmark in fragment and unbearable computation. In brief, in Britain, where artists workers often go for a public with a part of beer. It's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Science-latera-nase car market began at the Glyde in 2006. There has been no sign of revable. They were also told to go to the near-set bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called LAY-BARK-KANNONG and write down the recipe. Around 17-5% said marble technology. It took Craig and has was the over the last year. Where you are severing the food, remember that in Thailand. 18 is conjure experience. Everybody share the dishes and is at a relatively price. Has the food less small talk. And the pentan kept coming. Just don't talk with your mouse for. Everyone tries to induce marketing or use once-vigress or any untingial to take out the medicine. One might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese harpard has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb harpard for low notes. Seafood harpard from the Southern coast. And spicy harpard from Sichuan which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when called called in the breeze. Apparently Sichuan harpard started with the poor poor workers and fishermen around the river. Like, close only a full chip because of meat on an air of salt. So lay hold, head load test of low meat with spices. But today, the harpard from Sichuan is in renowned 48 substations so best. Medical researchers at low top-US hospital are experiencing to see whether or during bags on low stomach, turmeric can help peterners who have served a stroke. Torn invented a sap-pesting script book and a felt-potting press. But he also invented an other just for strip foreclos. Let it still induce. This is a lot of take-cust-driper with a clasp was made to repress both for all kinds of classes such as pant and dress. Today, low-easy to adjust strip is used in low-brazier or bra. Modern woman can send to her for repressing low-less handing buttons and strips with low weight and clasp. Still use in low-en almost all bars worldwide. As it can become standard one of the best prices of fuel, Ferran Ture Madford royalty over low-use, it was not the price set records because of her skin in the past. She still needs to wear an elastic body suit and her wonder have real incurable tea her movement. Although the Ferran's crings and even the girls in a sand Egyptian painting is showing the world's sake I made. It was not exclusively for reality or a rich even the repress who built the pyramid right it. In fact, our call lectures has found make up a total of a publication to us, used by these workers. He didn't like to grab but gratify his group and vanity. Jesus, surgeons, may many days in low. These days she died in the house of her wound in a supper of New Year in the United States and 21 years of age. The accrover of 147 human years his adecing of patient, ventured lab and remanager was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 73.193359375
總得分：73
--------- end of 4 --------------------
processing CBF110028 王啟良... 
 People who have lived in Japan for long time said Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Oshido and this great power in a face of the Westy. There are rumors that there will be another myth of an important F-Hernuna-do-new ear. Neshi and real estate price has been on a continual deck like in the early 2000s. The Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you grow along, you can take the picture rest side of glass dust, dust, dark, acute texture, and 18s and 19s, country dust, proofed houses. They include the tall churches, role play, store rabbits, tall fingers, and demonstrations on how to make your own discartance. Europe and philosophy have come out with a common myth for SDS. Mostly for private sector, also for government sesame. They hope to start a Christmas culture movement for sustainable, urban development. You know, a rainbow, Japanese restaurant is just a wrong corner. Romantic, gastroids, they make in crude, holding hands during a stroke in summer rain or springing rocks, pestles during a bath. April cursed, the song of pentern and very mark, new fringe meant and on far competition in Britain where all workers often go for a park lunch with a print of beer. It's even harder for people to stick to diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sale for off a re-revinyl. They were also told to go to the near-res bar and as a bartender to create a good-tailed color, rock and no, and the right-down recipe. Wrong, 75% said, said, mobile technology, 8 credit has version over the last year. I know you are saying very good food. The member left in Thailand, it's a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and it adds the pleasure in place as the food. The small talk and the banter keep coming. Just do just to stone talk with your mouth full. If one tries to induce raw-mountain or use vines, fingers or any utensils to deal with all the medicine. One of my cursed great-term damage to one's body. Chinese harpa is being around for over a thousand years. There is loered waferh nonex, popsify with clothing. The specialib pute form looked dry, which is for seats. Hot B. are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the brush. A period in theory. Such long hapa star with the poor property workers and fishermen along the Indian river. They could only a fruit chip cast of meal and awful. So lay it the test of the meal with fish, species, per-today, the hapa form. Such long is re-enact for its fish decaying. So best. Medical researchers at top US, spito, are is very romantic to see whether a dude best on the spice. This milk can help patients who have softer stroke. Taiwan, the right self-pasteen, spraybook and a toilet printing press. He also invited a adjustable trap for courses that is still in use. This, this aesthetic strap with a glass was made to replace the glass for all kinds of courses such as pants and dress today. The ED2 other J's strap is used in a dress Resiice or bra. Modern, woman can think 2-3 for MG painting. patterns and strength with the Armenian class still using in almost all bra. word white. SE can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years. It was no surprise that the pieces said because of her skin growth. She still needs to wear a elastic body. And her wonders have really blast in convenience. Her movements, all of the pericles and even the pants in cinq segments Mint and paintings are showing very thick eye makeup. It was a Q-serve for royalty or a rich. Even.. Rebuturn's full Beothn A Pyramid Reality. received Arkeches.. Ff to this workers. It didn't let to quantify his girlfriend venti. Jason Jason's so-drained many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner in the savor of New York in the United States at 21 years of age. The Nicole E. Kriformat of 147 human years. She's always a passion, friendship, love and revenge was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 71.8017578125
總得分：72
--------- end of 5 --------------------
processing CBF110010 林侑廷... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time sell a Japanese awkwardly influenced by the spirit of Pashido, and display great tolerance in the face of the university. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after the new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this low-to-make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you go along, you can take in the picturesque side of classic Dutch architecture, and 18th and 19th century Dutch roof houses. They include little challenges, roleplaying stone robbing, dollfig rings, and dumbass treasures. On how to make your own live skeletons. A European philosopher has come out with a commandment for ethics. Mostly from the private catar, but also from government subsidies. They helped to start a grassroots culture movement for sustainable urban development. And you know, renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gesture, the Mac Incult holding hands during a shorting summer rain, or springly rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement in unfair competition in Britain. Where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a paint of beer. It even harder for people to stay to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car, Mark began a deadline in 2006. There has been no sign to revival. They were also told to go to the nearest or as a bartender to create a cocktail called the Wokenol. And then write down the recipe. Around 75% say mobile technology, it has Rosen over the last year. While you were suffering the food, remember that entirely. The heating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and it is a visually-paced food. The small talk and the mental keep coming. Don't just talk with your small food. If one tries to induce what's made or use one finger or any attention to the girl's machine, one might cause greater damage to white spotty. Chinese harpa has been around for over a thousand years. There is then harpa from north, seafood harpa from south and coast. And spicy harpa from Sichuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently Sichuan harpa started with the poor poor poor poor and fishermen along the Yangtze river. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and awful. So let's take a look at the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the harpa from Sichuan is renon for eight. Suffice, take, cut, soup, best. Medical researchers at top US hospitals are experimentally to see whether a drug best on the spice. Turn, Rick, can help patient who have suffer a shock. Turn invention of self pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press. But he also invented a adjustable sharp for clothes. There is still in use. This elastic strap with the clasp was made to replace belts for all kinds of clothes. Such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy to adjust strap is used in the brazilian or broth. Modern woman can think turn for replacing the last handy button and straps with the convenient clasp still in almost all bras or right. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over a year. It was no surprise that the patient records. Because of her skin graft, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit. And her wound has really inconvenience, her movement. Although the fake rose quinks and even the gods in ancient ancient paintings are shun wearing thick eye makeup. It was now exclusively for royalty or a rich. Even the word, who built love, Ironheads were it, in fact. Archaeologists have found makeup, bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that too. Where the free, his girlfriend, Venetian. Jesus, so-dron, many days in the desert. She died in the house of her own, in the supper of New Year in the United States a 21 years of age. Look, equivalent of 147 human years. He is the other say of patient friendship, love, and revenge was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 85.0341796875
總得分：85
--------- end of 6 --------------------
processing CBF110046 葉翊萱... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time since the Japanese are granted influenced by the spirit of Bushido and this great great tolerance in the face of biodiversity. There are rumors that there will be another wealth of employment after lunar new year, next year. A real artist price has been on a continued decline. In the early 2000s, the type of government created this low to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you blend along, you can take in the picture-risk science of coloristic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th. Centering-latch-loft house includes the total challenge, rural playing stone robings, dark figurines and damaged trenches on how to make your own leaf, skeleton toss, a ramping, foolish for has come up with commandment for assistance. Most of the founder provides sector but also from government. Besides, they hope to start a grassroots control movement for sustainable urban development. You know a wrong-wet Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. romantic guest truth. They make include hoarding hands during a straw in the summer rent or springing, tin, rose, petal, during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of pantant and trash-mark in fring, mint and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pop lunch with a pint of beer. Even harder for people to stick to a debt, since the Taiwanese car market is declined in 2006. Leir has been not signed off. Leir will also talk to go to the nearest bar in X of bartender to create the local cultural cultural, local and then write down the receipt. A lot 75% said mobile technology has been created over the last year, where you are suffering the food. Remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience and repradiated share the dish and its as a share where the piece has the food. The small talk and the vendor keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouthful. If one tries to indulge, rob, venting or use once, fingers or any attention to stick out the mint, tin, one mint, because granted damage to one body, Chinese hot pot has been around for over a thousand years. Leir is loved by the north, seafood, hot pot from the Southner, toast and spicy hot pot from Sichuan, which is what we are having today. Actually is delicious when cooking in the bar. A parently Sichuan hot pot start with the poor pot workers and fishermen along the youngs and rover. They put only a fourth chip cut off mint and awful so they hit the test of the mint with spice. But today, the hot pot function is renewed for its sophisticated cut. Soup best. Minty called researchers at a top US hot spito are spring minting to see whether a drug best on the spice turmeric can help pan-tenth who have suffered a stroke. Taiwan invented self-pasting scrapbook and failed printing trees but he also invented a jester bowl, a strap bowl, cloth that is used. This is a plastic strap with a clasp was mint to replace. Built for all kinds of cloths such a pants and dress. Today, the easy to adjust strap is used in the breast cister or bar. More than woman can think Taiwan for repainting the list handy, buttons and straps with the convenience clasp skill used in almost all parts or what else it can be considered one of the best pieces of foreign churn made for royalty over the years. It was not surprised that the piece is recalled because of her skin. Graphics is skill needs to wear an aesthetic body such and her wounds have really in covering the her movement. Allora prirouse clinch and even the gott in a Seriously spintingate pants are shown wearing. Stick eyes mask up. This was not as crucifty for royalty or the rich. Even the upper wrist who blunts the fear of means war. It's an infec. A keyologist has found to make up battles and a paying attention to used by these workers. He did that to Grand Tiffy. His girlfriend's Benji. She just just sojourned many tests in the desert. She died in the house of her owner in a sappon of New York in the unised deaths at 21 years of age. The equivalent of 147 humans years. His autism of pension, friendship love and revenge was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 78.41796875
總得分：78
--------- end of 7 --------------------
processing CBF110014 許典玹... 
 Paypal who has lived in Japan for a long time Sara, Japanese悔ity influenced by the CB of Bashito and displayed great songs in a fresh off- Molthe booth. Lower rumors less valuable beyond another faith or transpiringly meant. After the latest new years at New Years at New Years and real is God's style as he left of the online. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government's correctity list allowed to make people more aware of their garbage and encourage them to recycle more. As you can set in the pictures screen, size of pooracit, guaranteed financial access and infrastructure, and education and adjustment during all the years. They include live yardage, replacing street farming wildlife rather than breed chain in the frequentpaths frame into shelter with the shallow market The Japanese Center was also from government, SPIRE, Subside. They helped to staff the US culture movement from sub-deliverable urban development. You know, all right, the main change Japanese really strong is just around the culture. The amount is existing. And it includes building being sorted with some people living in summer or washing bars and then fixedup review. In realizesimming Silver The to correct a cause called local pension and they are right down the rest piece. Around 7 times a set of small text files as a cross has was over the last year. Well, how are you several the first remembered of Thailand eating a coming of this spirit? Everybody just digs and is a let's just press a lot more. Last month and the better kept coming just talk which you must have. In 1st one tries to interrupt moments in 20 or use one's fingers or any use to teach all methods. My thoughts with greater damage to one's body. Chinese harpac has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb tarpac on the nose. Sever harpac from the southern coast. And species harpac from Sichuan. Which species are we having today? Actually, you see it's just a good influence. Apparently, Sichuan harpac star with the poor poor poor poor poor and efficient. Along the young river. Lairc to a me author, cheap harpac of mint and all of them. So lay his chest of lamb meat with spiced. But they are harpac from harpac. Harpac from Sichuan is green. He is for each service, catch a stop at the best. Medical research, hospital, I was praying to see when the ex-girls miss out on the spice. Terminary care have helped. He has been a stop. To invent a self-packing, strict book. And they are praying for breast. But he also invented and just a strip of prosthesis. Less is still in use. Then it's the extreme which cast the smell to respect the rest of the all kinds of causing. Such as painting and painting today. They are easy to adjust in use in the breast of the poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poorト whined for these poor poor poor poor poor poor poor�� wakingThese poor poor poor Rhine health wave. Also He is praying, normal poor grown rich poor hungry goodness. Um awakening so far. rookie deadly crying , rick language . Also he is praying He did last two graphics and his graphics with just sold the matching in the days in the days in the house of home or in a soft trunk of New York in the United States as 21 years of age. The e-crone lands from 117 humans here. He foughtcont링. He is all the disease. Of patients, freshman, loved and re-vent was no friend. Final French phase. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 43.1396484375
總得分：43
--------- end of 8 --------------------
processing CBF110031 陳宜軒... 
 People have lived in Japan for a long time. Cellar Japanese are gradually influenced by the spirit of Shido and Disparate Great Tararists in the face of the University. There are rumors that there will be an arrow wave of our environment after the new year next year. Real estate price has been around continue to decline. In the early 2000s, the type of government we had this lot to make people more aware of little garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the future research sites of plastic, such that the architecture and 18s and 19s, such a lot of large roof houses, they include little challenges, roofing, store, store, buildings, stone, factory and demonstration on how to make your own left scale. European philosopher has come up with comment, comment, comment, for atheist. Most of the more story from the private, the caterer but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots cultural movement movement for sustainable, development. You know, relevant Japanese restaurant is just around the corner, romantic, just just the make-in-could holding hands during a store in the summer run, or spring-grain growth, better during a bed, ample, acute sense of tension and tread market, infringement and unfair competition in Britain. Where all this worker often go for a problem lunch with a thing, a thing of B, B, B is even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car makes weekend is declining to 36, there has been no sign of revival. There will also talk to go to the new East Bar and Exx partner to create a cocktail called low volcano and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said marble technology, educated, wasn't over the last year, while used subverning the food. Remember that in China, 18 is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and is at leisurely as the food. The small talk and the winter came coming just don't talk with your mouthful. If you want to try to warm-up or use one finger or any, it's also to take out the medicine. One might cause great damage to one's body. Chinese harbour has been a long for over a year. There is less purple from the north. The seafood harbour from the southern coast and spicy harbour from the chan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it is Danish when cooked in the breast. Apparently, Sichuan harbour starts with the full-part worker and fishermen along the Yenjiang river. They could only afford cheap cart of meat and full and awful. So they hide the taste of the meat worth spicy. But today, the harbour from Sichuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup best. Medical research has taught us how to use hospital art experiment to see whether drug-based anglers-based spice, turmeric can help patients who have suffer a stalk. Taiwan invites a self-besting, scrub book and failed printing. But he also invites a adjustable stretch for girls that is still in use. This elastic stretch with the caps was meant to reprise the four-all kinds of girls' surgery and dress. Today, the easy to adjust the strap is used in the busier, or modern warm-temperature warm-temperature and thanks Taiwan to for repressing the less handy bunts and straps with the convenient chest-steer-use in almost all-brow worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best-based off-financial med for royalty over the year, it was not surprised that the basic record because of her skin graft should still need to wear and elastic body suit and her wonders have really inconvenience her moments. The first thing that I would like to say is that the first thing I would like to say is that the first thing I would like to say is that the first thing I would like to say is that girls who built the mirror mix were infact archaeologists had found makeup battles and application tools used by this workers. He did lead to great fine his girlfriend's menacy. Jesus, children, many days in the desert, should died in the house of her owner in a server of New York in the United States at 21 years of age. The equivalent of 147 human years. His other sea of passion, friendship, love and revenge was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 73.8525390625
總得分：74
--------- end of 9 --------------------
processing CBF108056 劉芯卉... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time say, The Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushinto. And this play, which tourists in the face of a diversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of employment after doing a new year next year. And real estate prices have been on a continued decline. In the early 2000s, the typing government creates this role to make people more aware of. The copy-jure and tool encouraging the two recycled models as you combine a lot. You can take in the picture screen size of a contestant or a text. And 18th and 19th century-loaf houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone, loopies, down, figurines and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf-skins. You'll pay for those full of it as come up with commented for a cease-mostly fun love by this Japanese restaurant is just along the corner. The romantic church, romantic church church church, they make it close holding hands doing a stroke in the summer ring. All spring rose petals during a wave. The beautiful church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church church Church church church church church church church alone III has been known shy of who resumed old. Then were also told to go to them near S spike. and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called Love Ok No. And then write down the recipe around 75% and write down the recipe around 75% and write down the recipe around 75% and write down the recipe around 75% and write down the recipe around 75% and write down the recipe around 75% and write down the recipe around 75% and write down the recipe around 70% and write down the recipe around 70% and write down the recipe around 50% and write down the recipe around 60%. And write down the recipe around 70%. Okay! So let's give it a try. We are going to use a wide variety of recipes Just don't talk with your mouth full. If one tries to induce the voting on use once fingers or any To the outlum medicine, wine, mind, clothes, greater damage to one's body. Chinese harpa has been around for over a thousand years. There is less harpa from the north. Seafood harpa from the south coast. And spicy harpa from the north. Which is what we are having today. Actually, it's the dishes when cooked in the course. A journey across the city. With the poor, poor, poor, poor workers. And fishermen along the river. They could only afford trip costs of meat and awful. So, laying high-slurped tester off. The mix with the spice, but today the harpa is fun. It's... We know for... Sophie case, soft base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are... It's too many to see whether a truck best on the... ...special, and have passion for half suffered a stroke. Taiwan invented a self-pesting script book and a film printing press. But he also invented an adjustable strip for clothes. Let's still use this. This is a static straw with a glass of glass. Was made to replace the file of all kinds of clothes. Such a suspense and dress. Today, no easy to adjust the straw is used in the... ...of art. More than women can think Taiwan for repressing the less heavy buttons and strips with the convenient lesson. They're used in almost all breast worldwide. As it can be considered once of the best... ...paces of miniature men for royalty over the years. It was no surprise that the piss set recalls. Because of first-game threads, keys fell. These two were in an elastic body's source. And her lungs have really... ...intervenient her old month. Although the various queens and even the cast in... ...in turn paintings... ...showing a show... ...wherein take I make up... ...it was not... ...is constantly for royalty over the years. Even the... ...label debbers who built the... ...point months of it this... ...well, it's... ...in fat. I found make up bottles... ...every location. Tools used by these workers. He did not... ...to verify he's girlfriend's penalty. Jesus... ...so... ...so drunk the... ...many days in the... ...decer. ...should die in the house of her owner... ...in a... ...support of New York in the... ...U90's state. At 21 years of age... ...the... ...of 147 human years. He's a... ...of tension... ...furniture... ...love... ...furniture... ...we bet... ...was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 26.025390625
總得分：26
--------- end of 10 --------------------
processing CBF110016 陳憲禹... 
 In Hong Kong, live in Japan for a long time, say that the paintings are closely influenced by the secret of the shido and the spread grater and the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after loneliness new year next year. A real estate has been a continue in the early 2000s. The Chinese government creates a slow-to-make-be a more a one-off-layer garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you let alone, you can take it the way picturesque style of classic garbage architecture and 80F and 90F century match. Lateral third house. Playing closely to how challenges roll, rolling, starving, dull figurines and de-multrision. I'm how to make your own lead skeletons. A European philosopher has come up with a comment for a facesht. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government's subside, they are hard to start a grassroots cultural movement for sustainable urban development. You know a win-no-bette, Japanese restaurants in just around the corner. Romantic jet-turned-man-meckling, clout holding hands during a stroll in the summer and sprinkling rose petal gill with a bath. In Nepal, a kill-senseong, pantant, a trademark, infringement and a fair competition. In Britain, where all-faced workers often go far apart, a pub lunch with a spins of beer. It's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese card market can, is the time in 20-06, there has been no sign of re-re-road. Later, also told to go in response and asked a bartender to create a cocktail called the volcano and then write down the recipe. Around 35 said mobile, mobile technology and a client has worsened over the last year. While you're serving the food, remember that Italian eating in a communal experience. Everybody's just delicious and is at the leisurely past-as-la-food. Just more talk and the better keep coming. Just don't talk with your mom. If one beaches, it deals moment, moment, moment, or use one fears or any potential to get out the medicine. When sent, one might cause return damage to one's body. Chinese hard-pought has been around for over a thousand years. There is land, hard-pought from the north. Safe food, hard-pought from the south coast. And spicy hard-pought from the south coast. Which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the barn. Apparently, Sichuan hapas start with low poor ports, workers and fishermen along the Changjiang river. Then could only afford cheap cars of meat and oven. Like, a sunny, high-glut-taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hapas from Sichuan is renowned for its sophisticated, super fast. Medical researchers and top US hospital are experimenting to see whether drugs based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Taiwan invented a step, passing scrapbook in a full field of fields printed in press. But he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes land is still in use. The estate, a less-state strap with a glass, was meant to repair spells for all kinds of clothes, such as pens and dresses. Today, the easy to adjust strap is used in pressier or bra. More than women can't think Taiwan for replacing the less-handy bottomed and straps with the convenient classic. We still use almost all-bross world-wound. It can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture. Met four-wheel-t-overly year because of her skin ref, she still needs to wear an elastic bodice suit. And her wands have really inconvenience. Although the virus, queens and even the guard in ancient Egypt and painting are show-werving thick eye makeup is not exclusively for royalty or rich even the laborers who built the pyramid. Rotate intact archaeologists have found makeup on her and application to use binding workers. He did that the gravity is girlfriend-man. She says, soldier, many deaths in the desert. She died in the house of her own owners in a subverns of New York in the United States. And in 20 years of age, his obsidian of patient friendship love and revenge was now finished. Thank you. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 75.0
總得分：75
--------- end of 11 --------------------
processing CBF110051 林詠晴... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time, sell a job and is aggrently in Houston, by the spirit of fruit shoes and these great tourists in the face of other wealthy. There are rooms, live well, be an outdoor vest with all of our polivates of the lower new year next year. A rural east side price has been on a continuity line in the early 2000s. The type of events currently allowed to make people more aware of their economy and to acknowledge land to recycle more. As you go along you can take in low pictures, grab side of classic Dutch, artichord and 18 and 19, central Dutch, rural cities houses. Like include late-haut children's railing, low-plying stone, living, too. The green and the most ancient on how to make your long-least sectors. A on-peel, the leisure has come always come, then needs for artists. Most of the ladies on their provide, the secretary, but also from the government's oversight. Let's hope to start a grassroots counter-avent forest central elbow on the V5. You know a long-wet Japanese visa run is just a longer corner. Romantic gas, let meck in cold-hold hand, during a store in the summer rain or a spring, rose-pedal-dooling of bath. A thought of a side-sense arm of paint, a turn mark in real grooming, an un-vind compound patient. In bright-end, rare office works, autumn-go-full of pop-lunch, with a paint of beer. It's even hard for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese supermarket began its line in 2000, six lyrical has been known sign of revoked. Let's also go to the nearest bar and act our body that will create a cocktail cola volcano. And then, right down the rest side, around 75% said mobile territories across has was in the last year. While you are saying severing love food, remember that in Thailand, it is a common experience. Everybody sure love dishes and eat at a leisurely press and love food. Let's milk and the vendors keep coming. Just don't talk with your most full. If one tries to induce moving or use one's fingers or any entails to attack all the medicine, one might have greater damage to what's body. Chinese harpah has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb and harpah-fongler north. They fully harpah-fongler south coast as vice harpah-fong C. Chong, which is what we are having today. A train is delicious when cooked in the roast oven ever in the morning. So Chong harpah-fong start with local products, and treatment. Along the young sea river, they cooked only a raw chicken cup of meat and awful. They had a high-end love test of the meat with rice, but then the harpah-fong C. Chong is running around for its softest. They doesn't listen to us as a top U.S. hospital or a sprue means to see whether a dur-bread on the spice, tamarind, can help paintings who have suffered a stonk. Tuan event of self-painting, skirt book and a veil printing press. But he also event of the Jadae vows drive for cross-letting style in use. Laced L.S. K. Strabbe with a glass glass main to refresh both full-own kinds of clothes, such as pants and dress. Today, the easy to adjust strength is used in the birthstry. Or about modern woman can sing, try and fall reprint, the least hand-dain. Mothers and Strabbe with the common event, convenient, because they are used in almost or bras worldwide. As easy as can be considered, one of the best pieces of future metaphor, rarely. But yes, it was not surprised that the taste and record, because of her skin growth, she still need to wear an L.S. K. body suit. And her mom has rarely encountered her movements. A zonglar furhouse, quince and even logos in an inside, continuing. Painting's our shongwerne, I make up, it was not a sure-severally for realtory. Or rich, even a little rava fur-bused, the semi-war-it event. All of her shoes have found makeup, bottles and applications used by least workers. He died, he died to guensty, he's girlfriend, venting. Just so during many days in the dress, today in the house of her warm in a server of New York in the context that I've done here in the last 21 years of age. The covellant of 140-7 human years. He's the oldest of Painting, French-Ref, loved and revenge was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 61.81640625
總得分：62
--------- end of 12 --------------------
processing CBF110039 陳妍蓁... 
 People who have living in Japan for a long time say Lord Japanese are regularly influenced by the spirit of Mosheetok and the display great tourists in the face of the density. There are rumors that there will be a mother with an employment after lunar new year. We all as take crises having on the continual decline in the earlier 2000s, the time of the day. The day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day off and 10-10���리 of estranery 15-12 Jackie Battles . and the chess market in arrangement and the unfair competition. In Sweden, where all these workers overgoed the amount of lunches, free of high-of-beer, this even harder of people to stay to a fight. Putting theлер-One- Здесь mark it, the game is sent to the rights of этот-to-der止acs. Mal has been something of revival. And the cat has also over the last week. While you are severing the phone, remember that in Thailand, you can be at this The communal is still everybody just the beach and it's at the beach. Right as the food, the small talk and the dinner cake goes. Just don't talk with you mouthful. If one tries to use milder, milder, milder, milder, or use one finger or any finger, you can solve two big mouthful medicines. One mind because greater than it is. To one five, try name hot pot, helping the wrong throat for one of the thousand years. There is number hot pot on the throat. Simple hot pot from southern coast to spicy hot pot on Sichuan, which is why we are having a cold. Only a full day to cut hot pot of mint and apple. So low food, milder, or milder, means a week's spice. So we're placing milder, milder, milder, and to break with mild caramel. The latter, we are using almost one more tip for fast, more vital. She is still needs to wear a mask or a body suit and for wonders. So let's call the reading and humblings, humblings. For a moment, alone, low, very low, close, and even low throat, coldness. And we will act on the explosion, the explosion. And in five shows, swearing, thick, pies, make up. It was not, it's close to the lid. So, no. So, we are going to call the reading and humblings. Thank you. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 33.1787109375
總得分：33
--------- end of 13 --------------------
processing CBF110048 陳欣妤... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time, the Japanese are gradually influenced by the spirit of Bushido and the display of great tolerance in the first of the verses. There are rumors that there will be another wave of on the primate, eternal new year next year, and the real estate prices have been our continual decline. In the early two-sourines, the type of government created this role to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picture stack, size of classic, touch, architecture, and the 18th and the 19th, central-led roofed houses. They include little challenges, raw playing, stone rapids, stone figurines, and the demonstrations on how to make your world of skeletons. The European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government, subsidies, they hope to stack up great roots, cultural movement, for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. romantic gestures and make include holding hands, during a stroll in the summer ran or spiraling. Rose petals during a bath, ever accused, the Amazon of petitions, and the trademark infringement and unfair competition. In Britain, where all face workers of turn go for a path, along with a part of beer. It's even hard to people to stick to a diet. Thanks to the Taiwanese car market, it's become a decline in 2006. There has been no size of revival. There were also talk to go to the nearest park and ask a partner to create a cocktail. Code, the volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% then mobile technology, educate, past, worsened, over the last year. While you read, severing the food, remember less intelligent, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and the ease as a DJ. As the full-learn small talk, and the better keep coming. Just don't talk with your most full. If one tries to induce vomiting, or use one's fingers, or any you tend to stick out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hot pot has been around for over a thousand years. There is them hot pot found on the north. They fall hot pot found on the southern coasts. And the spicy hot pot found, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooking in the pot. Apparently, each one has passed away with the poor post workers and the fishermen along the Yangtze River. That could only afford cheap cuts of meat or offer. So, let's hear the test of the meat with spices. As today, the hot pot found, such one, is renowned for its sophisticated taste. Let call researchers at a top US. As it is very minty to see whether a drug is on the spot. Terma Rick, can help patients who has suffered a stroke. To invent a self-paste, scrapbook and a felt, creating threads, but he also invented and adjustable, a scrub for clothes that is still in use. This elastic scrub with a crisp was meant to replace the felt for all kinds of clothes, such as pens and dresses. To tell the easy to adjust, the scrub is used in the posterior or bra. Modern woman can sing to it, for replacing the rest-handling, butters and the straps with the convenience. Crap, still used in almost all bras for the wife. As it can be considered, one of the best piece of furniture, made for royalty. Overall it was not surprised that the piece of the clothes because of her thin grafts, just still needs to wear an elastic body suit and her warmth, have freely inconvenience. Her movement, all all of ferro's cringes and even the guts, in ancient Egyptian paintings are show wearing thick. I make up, it was not, it costably, for royalty, all of the rich. Even the laborers, fulfill the pyramids, were it, in fact, archaeologists, have found make up photos and the vocation tools used by these workers. It is led to great fee, is girlfriend's vanity, Jesus, so chilled, and it does in the desert, should die in the house of her woman, in the stepper of New York, in the United States, a 21 years of age, the equivalent of 147, human ears. His fantasy, of passion, friendship, love and the revenge, was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 80.76171875
總得分：81
--------- end of 14 --------------------
processing CBF110007 謝許鑫... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time, say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year. And real estate price prices have been on a conuval decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take the inner picture as size of this classic dodge architecture and 18th and 19th century dodge roof houses. They included They include little challenges, role playing stone robbing, to doll figurines and demonstrations how to make your own leaf-scantons. A European philosopher has come up with commandments for 80s. Mostly from the private sector but also from government, subsidy, subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots cultural movement. For sustainable urban development, you know, a red red. Renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures, they make include holding hands during a straw in the summer rain, or sprinkling rose pedal during the bath. Apple accused Samsung of pendant and train-boughted inferred treatment and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pop launch with a pint of beer. It's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest far and as of bartender to create a cocktail called the volcano. They write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology, etiquette, has worse than worse than over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and is at a leisurely place at the food. No small talk and the banner, banter, keep coming just to just don't talk with your mom's food. If one tries to induce vomiting or use one, figures or any intense thought to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hot pot has been around for over a thousand years. There is limed hot pot from the north, seafood hot pot from the southern coast, and spicy hot pot from Sichuan, which is what we're having today. Actually, it is delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently Sichuan hot pot started with the poor poor workers and fishermen along the the Yanzi river. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and off of. So they hit the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hot pot from Sichuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup case. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on spice, turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. To invent it, a self-pasting, scrapbook, and a failed printing press. But he also invented and adjusted the bones strap for clothes that are still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was made to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy to adjust strap is used in a rear or bra. More than more than woman can think, turn for replacing the less-hand deep buttons and straps with the convenience. Tests still used in almost all-bross worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made of four, royalty overload years. It was not surprised that the piece said records. Because of her skin grafts, she still need to wear an elastic body suit and her wounds have really inconvenience for movements. Although the ferro's Queens and even the gods in ancient bishops, Egyptian pants are shown wearing thick eye. Make up, it was not excuse me, for royalty or rich, even the neighbors who built the pyramid, or its worries. In fact, archaeologists have found make up bottles and application tools used by this workers. He did that to graft his girlfriend's vanity. This soldier many days in the desert should die in the house of her owner in a supper for a few New York in the United States at 21 years of age. The equivalent of 147 human years. His other sea, other sea of patient, friendship, love and revenge was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 87.890625
總得分：88
--------- end of 15 --------------------
processing CBF110032 劉又瑄... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time, Sarah Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Pashido. And the display greater rents in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be other websites of employment after Numerous New Year, and real estate prices have been on a continuity line. In the early two-stallons, the Taipei government created this low-to-make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can tag in the picture-resk sides of classic Dodge Architecture and ATINCE and 19th Century Fetch root houses. They include little challenges, growth, laying, stone robings, tall figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. A new European philosopher has come up with commitments for ATINCE. Most of the front-le-prime-based architecture, but also front-le-cuff-man subsidies, they hold to start aggressive root culture movement for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated, a Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Gromantic gestures lay back in cool, holding hands doing a store in the summer ran, or sprinkling rose petals, ring of bath. A poor accusation of pattern and trademark infringement and unfair commutation. In Britain, where office workers open go for a pub lounge with a pint of beer is even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese camera came big and is declined in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to a nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail-collable cano and then write down the recipe. Around 75% of mobile technology at Kurt has worsened over the last year. While you are severing the food, remember that in Thailand, ATINCE is a communal experience. Everybody sure is a lot issues and is at a luxury pass as the food. Let's talk and the better kids coming. Just don't talk with your master book. If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hot pot has been around for over a seven years. There is land-hot pot-pronged north, safe with hot pot-pronged southern coast, and spicy hot pot-pronged central, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooking in the broth. A peeler in the pot. Central hot pot-pronged dirty with purer pot-workers and a fisherman along the Yens in River. They could only afford cheap cups of meat and apple, so they hide the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hot pot-pronged central is renowned for its sophisticated soup-best. Medical researchers at a TWS hospital are experimenting to see well-druck best-unless biced tomorrie. Can health patients who have suffer a stroke? To invented a self-pastings crab-boot and a felt, creating press, but he also invented adjustable strength for glasses less is still in use. This elastic trap with a glass was meant to replace the bones for all kinds of glasses such as pants and dresses. But today, the easy to adjust trap is used in the bra. Modern woman can't act to him, while replacing the less handy buttons and strips with a convenient colesps still used in almost all bra's war-wrest. As it can be considered one of the best-piece of furniture met for royalty over the years, it was no surprise that the piece says three coats. Because of her skin grifts, she still needs to wear an elastic body soup, and her ones have really inconvenienced her movements. A lot of the Pharaoh's quaint and even a glass in ancient Egyptian paintings are show wearing fake eye makeup. It was not exclusively for royalty over the rich. Even lovers who feel love pyramid were it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup, battles and applications to us, use by these workers. He did that to graphify his girlfriend's velity. Jesus, so generous, many deaths in Lord dessert. She died in the house of her owner in the sapper of New York in the United States as 21 years of age, the incredible of 147 human years. His adazzy of passion, friendship, love, and revenge was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 82.4951171875
總得分：82
--------- end of 16 --------------------
processing CBF110033 郭憶萱... 
 People who placed companies in Japan for a long time BC Asktu ranks at the coast of Buruchiku or attack class in Mang vegetables near miniature. Art Japanese WikimitaRI . As the head of Ky憲혔, Rom baixo, of unimperalling months after the lunar new year next year. And real is that prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created a list of to make people more aware of their garbage and took encourage them to recycle more. But you cry alone. You can take in the future, risk size or classic, that act structure in 18th and 19th century spec. Roots houses. They include the cultural industries, raw-frame, stone-lovings, stone figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeleton. European for last-of-per, has come out with commandments for easiest. Most of the public, sector, but also from government, success, may hold to start a gross loose cultural movement for sustainable urban development. You know, well-read it. Japanese restaurant is just a regular corner. Romantic restaurants, per lemmeagt in growth, holding hands during a stroll in the summer ramp or sprinkling raw-state halls during a bed. They are a purest sense of patterns in the chalimax in brief months and the unfair competition. In brief, well-of-these workers often go for a path lunch with a pint of beer. It's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car matches, we can eat the canine in 2006. There has been no sign of revival. Labour also told to call to Lonee's father and ask a bartender to create a cocktail, call the McConnell, and then write down a recipe. Around 75 persons said mobile technology at a kid has worsened over the last year. While you're severing love food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shows love dishes and is a leisurely past of love food. The small talk and the interactive time. Just a don't talk with your mouth full. If one tries to induce vomiting or use one fingers or any utensils to stick out the medicine, one night, cause return damage to one's body. Chinese father has been around for over a thousand years. Then it's limp half half run the north. Seafood half half run the south coast. And especially half half runcitoring. Which is why we are having today. Actually, it's the easiest one to cook in the booth, apparently, succuren half half stay with the poor post, workers and the different minds. Along the against the river. Like hook only a floor to cast of meat and oval. So the hill of test of the meat with spices. But today, the half half runcitoring is re-all voice self-paced, chaotic, soft face. When the call researchers at a task list has pittal R is feeling something to see whether a jack best on the spice turmeric. Can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Pre-inventive or still pasting scrapbook and a very pretty press. But he also invented an other jack full, scrap for houses that is still in use. This elastic scrap with a glass was meant to replace bells for all kinds of houses. Such as pants and dresses. Today, no easy to adjust scrap is used in love for steel. All bra. More than women can send train for repressing the less handy battles and stress with the convenient class still used in almost all brass or white. As it can be considered, one of the best faces of furniture made for royalty over the years. It was no surprise that the piece said records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit and the her ones have really in communion with movements. A lot of hours, prints and even locusts in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup. It was not as closely for royalty or rich, even the levers who build love, pure needs, wore it. In fact, a key arid juice hair frown, made up battles and the application to use by these workers. He did not have to cry his girlfriends' melody. Yes, a so-called many deaths in their desert. She died in the house of her owner in a suburb of New York in the United States as 21 years old age, the accumulation of 147 human years. His other sea of passion, friendship, love and the revenge was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 73.2421875
總得分：73
--------- end of 17 --------------------
processing CBF110015 陳家豪... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time, said that Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Poshido. And this play, great tolerance in the face of the University. There are rumors that fair will be another wave of unemployment after a lunar new year. And will it a test price have been on a continual decline? In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people make a fall of their garbage and to incorrect lentil, the cycle more. As you grade along, you can tag in the future size of classic Dutch, a rogue-state teacher. A marketing and a 2020, such as は お と  Seoul stär の た しかし が じゃ と あ しゃ し ない そう 押 嚇し 习ウ デ ト。 stong robbling dodge figurines and demon stir relations on how to make your own life-skated. Equal, you're open, visual, visual, that Thechercom has come, and, if advent, revenge, for the charming decent Right and Titan, opponent, successful activist. Let hope to start a quest-loots cultural movement for sub-suffering sustainable urban development. You know, a renewable energy to the next best-to-round is just a rounder corner. Humanity, this quest-trust, let me include holding hand during the earth's draw in the summer or speaking loss, petals during a bath. A poor, sex-assist sense of pattern and chat-rock infringement and unfair competition. In burn, where all this work often go for a park, learnt with a pint of beer, is even hender for people to seek to diet. Since the Taiwanese car market is declined in 2006, there has been no side of the river. There were also two go-to-loots. He is turbo and a carer, patender to create a coog-tail called the Volvo and the right-down-resteer around 75%. Mobile technology, a ticket has wasn't over that year. While you are severing the food, remember that is Thailand. It is commercial, it is famous. Everybody sure, the dishes and its color. Pass as the food, the small talk and the bentor-keep coming. Chatur-dong talk with your mouthful. If one third-to-induced food, for meeting or use once, singers or any, you can see a lot of food. One night, cross-grid, demand to one's body. Chinese have had a hard path, has been around the over-sourced year. There is lim-har-pat from the north. See-through-har-pat from the south, southern, quite, and spicy-har-pat from the south, which is what we are here in today. Actually, it is the class where it is cooked in the broth. The city, southern, has started with the poor-pat workers and fishermen, a roller, young, young, the river. Lair-cook only a full-tube cut of meal and over. So, let's eat the test of the meat with spicy. That's today. The harbour from the south, southern, is the long-dent for is, so-fist, so-fist, tea, so-fist, tea, cat, soup, bed. Medical research and top-use US hospital are, is permitting to see, where a judge best their own spicy, turmeric can help 10 teens who have suffered a stalk. Taiwan invented self-test, square book and failed preaching press, but he also invented the jazz, other jazz table. Strap for cross, let is still in use. Let's list, let's take a step with a glass, which means to replace, built for all kinds of cross. Sultures, paint and dress today, they're easy to adjust, turs, trev is used in the broads, they are, buzzer and bra. Modern woman can think, ten for repressing the less-hand button and straps with the conventional, to less-still use in almost-ter-all-brass worldwide. This can be considered, because it's one of the best price cases of furniture, furniture, metal, glory, reality, over-lead, it was no super-vice, the peace, sad record, because of her skin, grass should still need to war and LST, for this and her who wonders have really incongvent, incongventiously her movement, a lot of her, other far-law, prince and even the god-gads in LST. Androm, painting, painting to our strong-world, thick ice, backup, it was not, it's cross-body, for royality, or the rich, even the Keshen to all use by less workers. He did learn to grow gritty-fly. He's grow fan-venty. Chess's so-ture, Maddy, There's in the desert. She died in the house of her owner in a suburb. Who knew your is the... You need state. I've 21 years of age. A core legend of 147 human year. He's obviously of patient, Fender ship, Love and the event was new, Fren finish. What now? => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 60.2294921875
總得分：60
--------- end of 18 --------------------
processing CBF110042 張家瑜... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time, said that Japanese are gradually influenced by the spirit of Bushido. And this great-great tolerance in the face of other russi, there are rumors that there will be an alwef of unincremented after Luna, new earness ear. And real estate prices have been on a continued decline. In the early 20s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in pictures, pictures, cut sides of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century, led to growth houses. They include little changes, role-playing, stone robings, doll fingering, and demonstrations on how to make you only with skeletons. And European philosopher has come out with commendance for artists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government's sub-siders, they hope to start a grassroots counter-run movement for sub-sustainable urban development. You know a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gas trust they make include holding hands doing a straw in the summer, ran off spring, cling, roof, rose, penthouse doing a bath. Apple occurs is Samsung of pay tend and Trudem Chadmumak in spring German and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pop lunch with a piece of beer. Is Iran even harder for people to stay to diet? Since the Taiwanese calm markets begin its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest nearest bar and ask the bartender to create a cocktail, color, rock, rock, volcano, and then write down the receipt. Around 75% say mobile technology, it takes it has worsened over the last year. While you are so sorry, the full remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and it's at a leisurely pace, a food. The small talk and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouthful. If one tries to increase induced wrong meeting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine. One, my cursed greater damage to Westbody. Chinese hapta has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hapta from the north. seafood hapta from the south coast. Spicy hapta from which is what we are having today. Actually, the dishes can cook in the broth. Apparently hapta started with the poor poor poor and fishermen along the river. They could only fall trip cards of meat and awful. So they hit the test of the meat with spices. But today the hapta from is sentrin is renowned for is soft-fisted soap-based. Medical researchers at a tap US hapta has been told are experimenting to see whether a drug species on the spice-spice turmeric, turmeric, can help patients who have suffered a stroke stroke. Turn invented self-passing scrapbook and a fault printing press. But he also invented and the jester burr a jester burr trap for causes that is still in use. This elastic trap with a cast was made to replace belts for all kinds of causes such as pens and dresses. Today, the easy to adjust trap is used in the brass here or bra. More than women, more than women can send Taiwan for replacing the less handy buttons and traps with the companion convenient clasp still used in almost all brass worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, it was no surprise that the pieces said records. Because of her skin grats, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit and her worst have really inconvenienced her movement. Although the ferret ferret crease and even the gut in engines, pen pens are shown where wearing thick eye makeup. It was not exclusive for royalty or a lot of rich. Even the blabberers who built the key remids were in fact a key logic Alex has found makeup, bar toast and app application to us by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriend's vanity. Jesus sold drone many days in the desert. She died in the house of her own in a superb of New York in the United States at 21 years of age. His odyssey of patient, friendship, love and revenge was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 81.5185546875
總得分：82
--------- end of 19 --------------------
processing CBF110003 王煒楷... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time, sell the Japanese accurately influenced by the spirits of Pushido and display goods tolerance in the face of the university. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after ruining your next year. And real the status of the countries has been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the type of governments created this low to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you collide along, you can take in the picturesque sites of classic Dutch architecture and 19th and 19th and 19th century fetch, moved houses. They include the total challenges, role-playing, stone robbing, 12th degrees and demonstrations on how to make your own lived skeletons. A European philosopher has come up with commandments for effiest. Most of the people are the private sector, but also the government subsidies. They hope to start a quest routes. Cultural movements for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Remmented dress shirts like Mac, including holding hands during a stroll in the summer rent or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused the song of patents and trademark infringements and unfair competition. In Britain, where all these workers often go for a popular lunch with a pint of beer. It's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car parkets began its decline in 2006, they have been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the Niedt, bar and ask a bartender to get a cocktail called La Vercano and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology at the crates has worsened over the last year. While you are severing the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody dressed the dishes and it's as a leisurely pass of the food. The small talk and the vendor keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full. If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cost greater damage to one's body. Chinese hard parts has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamp hard parts from the north, seafood hard parts from the southern coast. And spicy hard parts from Xinchuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's still reduced when cooked in the fourth. Apparently, Sichuan hard parts started with the poor poor workers and fishermen, a lonelist, Yenshi river. Let's call it only a full chip cut of meats and oven. So let's hit the test of the meats of the meat with spices. But today, the hard parts from Sichuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup paste. Medical researchers as a top US hard spitoire experimenting to see whether a drug best on the spice. The turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. She invented a self-pasteing scrapbook and a failed printing press. But he also invented an adjustable strap for coffee. That is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of coffee. Such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy to adjust strap is used in the bra. Modern women can think trend for replacing the last handy buttons and straps with the convenience clasp. Still used in almost all bras in worldwide. It can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the year. It was no surprise that the piece says records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit. And her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the furrows, crints and even the guards in the engine, education, paintings are shown wearing the eye makeup. It was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborists who built the film's world, it's effects. Okay, okay, all of you have found makeup, bottles and application to use by these workers. He did not have to gratify his girlfriend when he was a thief. Jesus soldered many tests in the desert. She died in the house of her owner in the supper of New York in the United States at 21 years of age. The equivalent of 147 human years. His Odyssey of passion, friendship, love and revenge was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 85.546875
總得分：86
--------- end of 20 --------------------
processing CBF110009 宋長榮... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time, that a Japanese are currently in evolution by the spirit of Bishado and display great terrains in the face of the Rens City. There are remorse less there will be other web, unpopointments, after lunar year's last next year. In real estate Paris has been on a continuity line. In early 2000s, the type of government traded, this low to make people more well, of their garbage and to encourage them to cycle more. As you grandly alone, you can tag in the picture screen, side of classic. Enter, enter, choose an 80s and 90s. Centralists, let's do the houses. Laying, cute little, childish, blue, pale, blue, playing, stone-riving, dull, fingers and demonstration and how to make your own left scoutons. You, not a ample polish purse has come up with common, common, for artists. Mostly from the Pratt, Perrato, Secret, but also from government, Super City. Laying, how to start a grassroots cultural movement for Stalin, said, and to bow and bend, devaluedments. You know, a re-authentated Japanese restaurant is just a long corner. Romantic, graster lay, make, in two holding hand during a story. In the summer, grand-over, spouting rose, praise during the bath. April, April, I, are excuses some samsung, off, painting and trying to trap the march, in for government and unfair campaign. In Brown Tee, Brown Tee, where coffee will often go for a pub, with a painting of beer. It's even harder for people to trick to diet. Since the Taiwanese car car market begin is deadline in 2006. There has been no sign of re-bomb. They were also told to go to the near rest bar and ask bartender to create a capital collar balance and then write down the brief city. Around 7.15% said in Marvel technology in credit has worsened over the last year. While you are serving the food, remember that in Thailand eating is a common. Man is parents. Everybody show the dishes and it's actually a place as the food. The smell, talk, tech, and love and the counter-cave coming. Just don't take it with your mouth full. If one tried to introduce the men being mentally, using one finger or any, untainted to dig out the men's. One might cancel greater damage to one's body. Chinese hot pot has been around for over a thousand years. The list number has passed from the north. The staff said that the hot pot is a popular restaurant. The restaurant is a restaurant that is a restaurant which is what is what we are having today. Actually, it's disliked when cooked in the broth. Apparently, the restaurant has started with the secret sonra. Hu... Jua. Li Queungnee,ixel prayer. ShigeIS Taken. He has worked without achuba. But today, the heart part from Sichuan is win right for his shop-chap-catted soup best. Medical researchers as a top-use hospital are experiments to see whether dog best are best, but chiming can help painting who have several stalks. Tywin invented a chef painting scrapbook and a failed painting purse, but he also invented a few types and well chopped into pieces. As is, a light stick, a trap with glass v was meant to replace bad for all kinds of cloths, such as the painting and drawers. Today, the easy to adjust strap is using in the process or bar. Modern woman can sink Taiwan for the repaintaint the lace handing button and strike with a cotton. Then, cloths still use in almost all-hard word with. As is can be considered one of the best places of 14 new metaphor, we are able to evolve here. It was super-less, the piece that we talked. Because of the skin grafted, she still needs to re-align elastic body suit and her wonder has really uncovered events. It comes to the her movement. Although the structures, trees and even the gods in ancient engraving painting are shown real wedding, check eye makeup up. This was not a close bit for role-differery over the rich. Even the members who put the parents' worries in fact. Such structures have front-make up buttons, though an appellum-inch can tell you spines this works. He did last 2 grafts teeth, his girlfriend went to church, so she turned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her older in the skirt of New York in the United States as 2,000 years of age. The incredible event of 147 human years. His artist's of pension, friendship, love and revenge was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 64.599609375
總得分：65
--------- end of 21 --------------------
processing CBF110027 翁煜棨... 
 You know I need aumescensch pepper on my conscience! Imp..] We're dealing with an annual report. I mean, problem. That problem is still. And we're just making a deal on the community, the early 2000s, I've been around with them. They've been used to make people more aware for the garbage and image. Then, we cycle north. As you guys follow, you can take in the... In the picture as size of a plastic, I see... Dashboard, active, page book. And 80s and 90s, century, dashbook. House. They include no change, you're playing stone lobbies. No, it's bigger than the long-strends. I have made all these deals. And you're up here for lots of the discount. Coming up, release. Got meant forgot us.�ms for... Fencing. Fun for the bag.% brea. Defender and appeniy shop strategic. Pay home with asnalyn & grass food. else we need you to remember the best person to take these parts. And member There are also many trustworthy suggestions that may help toなんです by judiciary. unemployed brains black�isen «Urstntける through針là that is a very good function. Regarding this game, let's rent a local system. Next, I will install the virtual Lambda system. We select import achievable functions. Also with organic stuff needed to organize high website or style productive state consists of not easy to be immediate et s S Either музыo and then write it on the server around 75% with a 1.0 mijrol Norton vs S Both Well, you are covering your purposes in single class, in high and getting so, and do not despair. Everybody should ask for your treatment thesis, and your major research. Intro. That's a simple resort, it can change just the treatment, don't talk with your mouse. If one tries to induce provide here or use one's finger for any you can see it depends on where an employee is most likely. When in the retail market, it seems to be quite worth 30,000 years for analysis. and spicy apart from such what which is why we are having with that. Actually, it delicious when put in the broth, the flour, the flour, the flour, I'm trying to stretch why. Have first, bili is work more focused and patient, not. What I call a Or, is thirsty, pleasures, headaches��ries, mechanical researchers, mental pains plus people are experimental to see whether or got meds on the spiciness. is by the surface. I'm also with your job in the session after fixing off the p Parker testimonials. Oh train G whereamento Self Pastines probably and failed bus but he also He mentioned the gesture optical classes meditations Jimin use mu These els loops, jabies, or class, must mean the first, just, or all, class of classes. Such as pairs and jasses. Today, the easy, agile, straight, is used in the last year. We see a, or a, or a, or a, or a moment can think. We can say, then, and saying a train, or we're pressing the best, and then, classes and strips, which are from the last, students, or most, or class, or class. As it can be, consider the point of the test piece of, virtual, then, or royalty, over the years, he was most surprised that the piece, still, because, it is, of a single, she's, you need, the real, the SD-Fardys, and the ones that really, in terminals, or the, although the pair, although the, although the, whereas, and even the class, and see, and see, the, the Jewish, and the, are showing, are showing, the, I make up, you must know, it's more similar, or worthy of which, even, do you, you go, pollo, pollo, jim, jim, Ralph, Quin, put, But he did that when quite a time is still quite bad. This is such a thing today. So, to die in the south of the world, in the south of New York, New York, in the United States. And 21 years of age. So, how do you understand the, the, the forever in the of 147 human? Yes. His only sea of passion, when she looked, every adventure was now in the city. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 35.5224609375
總得分：36
--------- end of 22 --------------------
processing CBF110005 高璟譽... 
 Live in Japan for a long time and say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are almost there. There will be another wave of employment after a long-term new year next year. And real estate prices have been on a conditional decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created a lot to make people more aware of the garbage and encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take the picturesque side of classic touch, architecture and 18th and 19th century touched real-fifth houses. The include little challenges role playing stone robings, Darth figurines and demonstration on how to make your own leave skeletons. And you've been for philosopher has come up with commitments for has it. Mostly from the private sector. But also from government, subside, they hope to start a great real-time control movement for sustainable, urban development. You know, renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. The mental gestures they make include holding hands during a straw in the summer when or sprinkling roses, rose petals during a bath. Apple caused Samsung up pattern and trend mark infrictment and unfair competition. In Britain, work office workers often go for a problem with a pain of beer. It's even harder for people to stick to their diet. Chinese autonomous car market began its decline in 2006. There has been no sign of rebel. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and export tender to create a cocktail called the volcano and then write down the recipe. A well 75%-side mobile technology, adequate has worsened over the last year. While you are severing the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and is literally pays as the food. The small talk and the button button keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouthful. If one tries to induce warm routine for use once fingers or any, you tend to take out the medicine. One might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hopper has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hot pot from the north. People have performed the self-swing cost and it's basically hard-puff from Sichuan, which is why we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Peanuts and Sichuan hot pot started with the poor poor workers and fishermen along the young's river. They could only afford cheap costs of meat and all force. So they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But they had passed from Sichuan, which is renowned for sophisticated soup. Medical researchers at the top US Hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug base on a spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. However, invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a fell printing press. But he also invented a adjustable strap for closest that is still in use. The elastic strap with a clasp with mean to replace belts for all kinds of corpses. Such as pants and dresses today, the easy to adjust strap is used in the breast rear. Or bra modern women can think time and for replacing the less hand- the buttons and straps with the convenient. Glassmen with still used in almost all bras worldwide. As they can be considered who of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, it was no surprise that the piece said record. Because of her skin craft, she still needs to wear a elastic body suit and her woman's have really inconvenienced her movement. Although the fracks, fracks, cream and even the gas in engines, it takes action. Painting are shown very thick eye makeup. It was now exclusively for royalty or the rich even the laborers who built the premium mean worth. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup, photos and application to use by these workers. It did that to graph gratify his girlfriend, vanity. She says, so during many days in the desert, she died in the house of her owner, a suburb of New York in the United States at 21 years of age, the equivalent of 145 human years. Here's R.C. out the of patient friendship love and we will be benched with now finished. Thank you. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 83.6181640625
總得分：84
--------- end of 23 --------------------
processing CBF110018 劉耿豪... 
 People who have live in Japan for long time, said the Japanese are great, inclusion by the spreader for boosted on the display, great, transparency in the face of the university. Let our rooms lay there will be another work of an environment with eternal tier list. In fact, for the first time Konstantin posting a book script for this book, was the real image of the mysterious subject, in the early 2000s, The Taipei government quit this low-to-make people more a world of little garbage and the two In church, led to re-seller, as you get along, you can take it deep, it cheers with clear, Such a full crisis does a road through 80s and 90s, century, let's take a new feed house. They equally tall churches, rural play, stone, rubies, those figures and the diverse decision of how to make your world live in the case of less and the irreverent. The first and the second, the first and the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the second, the first, the second, the second, the second, the second, the third, most, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, almost full, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, that, that, two, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, 3, half, half, half, half, 8, quarter, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half, half or half, half. tools they make include holding hands during a store in the summer when was being treated in KRL As聰llo is a system of AT at the took back transition In Britain, where all these workers often go for a power of lunch with a pint of beer, is even harder for people to stay to work. Since the Taiwanese Club, my case again is the lines in 20s, there has been no sign of the river. There were also tools to go to the news scene, but I'd ask her about it to create a... Hear, coldifloss knows? A redтора VISTAiz, around 70, 75%. 5% said mobile technology is critical as world's overall less year. Well, you are suffering the full. Remember less in the current IT is a component. It's a Shale dish and its size. The牛 is ice and the new package. The small talk at the end.중에 is more needed for the premium荔 foods with much cover and they will be most successful and how many waves of waves of waves further? to dig out the medicine. One nice, tensile grid damage to one spotty. Chinese hard path has been wrong for over a thousand years. Little is limb hard path from the north, seafood hard path for a thousand cost days. And the spice, spice hard path from similar which is what we are having today. According to the issues we took in the growth of friendly session path, start with the probe path. First, we are proposed, was the fishermen along the Yangtze River. The could only first chief cost of meat at the oil. So the fillet with the tester of the male meat, we spice spicy. But today the hop-hop from similar is the wonder for is soft, so we stick it to best. The show research is as a hop-hop, US hospital is treatment to see whether a drum face on the spicy to make a can help 18 who have served a store. This is a case of gas washments to replace this bill for all cases of grossing. Such as pen and dresses, today is easy to drive a street service in the wandal woman who is 10, 6, 2, 4, refresh the list and the buttons. And strips with the commitment. Perhaps CEO use it almost or pass worldwide. S, E, can be a country's one of the best pieces of future metaphorality over the E. This was no surprise, let's leave this list because of the skin growth, she still needs to wear and elated body suits. This is physical but powerful. commentator. Sailmark movement. All of the peoples all, the first Queens and the He can feel in a certain world, the ice makes up. is was not his soul-severty for Rwati or the rich even the rappers who built the face�� of course there are two of them the by these workers. He did lead to great fee. He is girlfriend, Vedi. Jesus. So, Chinese, many days in the desert. He died in the house of a woman in the subvert of New York in the east of New York in the US and theamız Glensteads. Vedi fled the已eads later. 187 humans, 197 humans,edited villager rushed to get their original home ent protagonist. of a person. Friendship love and the revenge is was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 22.314453125
總得分：22
--------- end of 24 --------------------
processing CBF110045 賴宥蓁... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time, said that Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirits of Bushito and this great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another web of unemployment after lunar new year next year. And real estate prices have been on a continue decline. In the early 2000s, the times of government created this thought to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you grind a lot, you can turn in the visual-resk size of classic dodge architecture and addings and 90s century-thached growth houses. Then include your talent challenges, your employees don't robbing, don't figure things. And the most precious is how to make your own lives. It's a good lesson. I, European philosophy has come up with governments for necessity, mostly from the private sector, but also from governments. Sof, sof, say, die. They hold two dark rest roots, cultural movement, for sustainable, urban development, to know. A renomantic Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gesture, they make include holding hands during a straw in the summer rent or sprinkling rose pattyle during a bath. Ever a kill Samsung opened, had turned and drank mark in treatment and outdoor competition. In Britain, we're all face workers often go for a problem with a pink outfit. It's either harder for people to stick to the diet. Since the Taiwanese car market, it's thick-wine in 2006. There has been no side of revival. They were also told to go to your restaurant and ask the bartender to create a cultural colour. Ok, no, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% of the world's technology has grown over the last year. For you are savouring the food, remember that in Thailand, easy is a communal, is pure. Everybody shares the dishes and is as a passionately past us love food, plus more talk. And the vendor came to me, just don't talk with your mouth full. If one tried to eat, in Duce, vomiting or use washingers or until they're too thick all the medicine, what my cost grants her damage to one body. Chinese harpa has been around 4-over a thousand years. There is lamp-hapad from the north. They will have far-far-far sauce thousands. Cost of spicy harpa from Sichuan which is what we are having to do. Actually, it's the rational way of cooking the broth. But here in Duce, Sichuan harpa, start with the poor post workers and fishermen along the river. They could only afford to cost off with a full. So, let's taste the taste of the meat with rice. Spaces. But the half-hour branch in Thailand is granola for its sophisticated taste. So, based on the taste of the meat, the taste of the meat is very tasty. Many call it researchers at the top US hospital are experimenting to see whether or not drug-fast on the spice. Tamarik can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Taiwan invented a cell, pasting square book and a bell printing press. But he also invented a adjustable drive for closed land is still in use. This elastic, strike with a glass with a mean to replace beautiful old kinds of clothes. Such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy to adjust grab is used to press, press or bar. Other women can't thank for Taiwan. Tam for rip. Taiwan for replacing the less handy button and dress with a convenience class is using almost all the rest for strike. This can be considered. Considered by all the best places of furniture make for royalty over the year. His was not surprised that the piece said recall. Because of her skin graft, his shoes stay still need to wear a slightly body shoes. And her was really in communist her movements. A lot of her screens and even the gossiping, as an Egyptian paintings are shown where everything I make up. It was not exclusively of for royalty or the rich. Even the lever of who build up. Paramount where it is. In fact, archaeologists have found make up photos and a vocation to justify this bookers. He did that great fee. His girlfriend Melty. Just a soldier. Many dozen deaths in the desert. She does in the house of her owner. His suburb of New York in the United States at 21 years of age. The equivalents of 147 human years. His other side of the set. Of Christian friendship love and revenge was delfinish. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 71.7529296875
總得分：72
--------- end of 25 --------------------
processing CBF110050 盧家卉... 
d got exoplanes films for Rom after 40 years last early 1230 yearsdimundred WorldsD決定下數的寶物d got the 10 yearsd排 VRd got the 10 yearsDs could hold 2 yearsd got 12%d got the 14 years深圳群敛忍,这个派人或 podob admit,ung high level of loneliness and happiness.例如,新冠军,文化学生出现了新冠军学生,经证上学生效icas,尼排学生技术了调查、学生学生学生学生学生,学生码画生的非常小文化学生 hoffe,不lik彈劉浩 опред nah� 但始终 tôi在重新 Jesse跟体力厊物乾温 chain畏劉奈 当作开始根现在ages工作作用使用精士, 无话流出有在犯伴供應商場場戦予途中通常在高極力等有失敗事實規模的固策略竟革無意予對其如此無無壹不同滕 КРИ異首經 method言論二英竹小Ha 팁上學校選擇最好的而大黎月曼!在彌孜的生命一入地下面幼顴。以為色範圍又 時刻快點時演。我们与蚵瑪略坦方的地方又略事就立logo未下斷離了!纪明电源器,北京和谓院。作品中有许诺诺用盘😁作品当中歌曲诺形怀到一个很动靠的朋友。然后是铃纹 Dangric below这是7 балderах archiveactpad的確是無事無稱死又有故意 nurse Food不必說也可以料理因為它是無法變成人類隨著股癖和其他土色的 wear同樣的身 acquire同樣的時間無法去食物可能只剩下有趣医 위해서 如果釘砍在 biblical 或直接高度 oventer你一定要入手去浪費一款一款燒熱後들을切薄直半 RAW日涵切碟和治療或区量環境或ココ電音秋代溫離中文品各規模唧圓在來開頭遠方近日Sophiescator Soup base Medical researchers as a top US hospital Is pre-mountain to see where a drug based on the space turmeric can help pension who have a server or stalk Taiwan imbite a self-peasiting script book A fair printing price But he also invited a dress for clothes that is still in use This in less than a strip with a dress was meant to reprise belts for all kinds of clothes Such as pants and dress Today, I will show you a dress strip in the pre-gia All black modern women can take 3-4 repressing the less handy patterns and strip with the convenient Clasp still used in almost all bras with a wide Thus, he can be considered one of the best piece of furniture Made for royalty over the years. He was no surprise that the piece said record Because of her skin graft, she still need to warm a less body suit And her wands have already in convenience for more moments Although the furrows, crints and even the cups in ancient Egyptian paintings are show boring sick ice makeup It was not a curse for royalty or rich Even the laborers who build the Pareto meters were in fact, Aque, narrow trees have a fun make up patterns and application tools used by these workers He did that to correct by his girlfriends by the tea Jesus saw the many days in the day to toe She died in the house of her own In a supper of Newark in the United States, at 21 years of age The equivalent of 147 human ears His other seat of patient, grand-earship, the end-revenge was now finished => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 34.912109375
總得分：35
--------- end of 26 --------------------
processing CBF110035 王珮瑩... 
 People who have been in Japan from a long time, saying that Japanese are great in 4 words, by the spirit of the shield and the discreet great parallel in the face of the city. They are almost like they will be another way of people� next to a 1800 TV camera of use or condemnation Islam, Anyways Crimea, Normal<|id|>, Altair, Andhany Sharotna ManEL God will greet these love to many people more aware of rare garbage in the two encourage them to recycle more. As you live along you can take in the picturesque size of classic juice I treat I and I and the nightApplause since three that Trucess makes up little Tanghulu, Tanghulu, Tanghulu, Tanghulu, Fou, A.C.O.S. Three stars, two star collectors, and two stars, two stars.icker, Sash can able open the wheel of it. You know, when no weight Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic, just two. Laying in the loud holding hands during a stroke in no summer or screen pace in quiet little pace in in three German and a fair, conveyor teacher. In winter, war of its workers often go for a path lunch with a pin of beer. It's even harder for people to stick to old diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its date life in 2006, it has been no sight of river roll. They were also told to go to the nearest back in the escalator, to create a car tail called blackenop in the lane right down the reserve pit. A ground 175 person same, my beer, technology, was sent over low less beer. I hope you were safer. The food we remember last time, eating is a communal experience. And the dishes in the it's at a leisurely pace. The small talk and the little thing that he can just do, don't talk with you once more. If one tries to induce raw mint or use one's fingers or any unturned seal, to deep out love matters. One of my co-scrater, they meet two once party. Chinese have had been a rung for over a thousand years. They is laying a path from low-knows. See food, have had from low-souls and co-stokes. In the species have had one, Sichuan with Israel wheel, while we are having to date. A truly is delicious when cooking in the forest of parented. Since the train has started with slow poor poor workers in the fish market, a long-legged young green river, lake pool, only a thought, cheek cast of meat and over. So lay heat glow taste of low meat with severe seas, but today low-happard one Sichuan is renal for its surface to cut into base. Make the call, receive trees, and all that you as has peat, are the spiritual motive to see way look of dry, basic, anglo-speak. Trauma rich can help patients who have suffered the loss of the truck in 20th of self, has thin-squared food and a failed printing price. But he also invented an other drata, which is a very delicious dish. So try it for colonel 6. That is still in use. This A.E.L.S.T. Try with a colise with rice, min, to repel its spells for all kinds of colonels. Such a certain pen and addresses today. Lay low easy to adjust the trucks. Use in the base or bra more than woman can send twin from repelacing low-less handy patterns and the trucks with low-convenient colise. So they are used in almost all grass worldwide. S.E. can be considered one of low-braised eyes of furniture, made from raw yurt, over low-eels. This was not surprised that low-priced red coats, because of her skin growth, she still need to wear and eat less fatty soup. And the whole world has really encountered no sea, have her own most. Although low-penuous, Queen's and even low-casts in ensign. Ensign, in juice, a juicure, paintings, ashore, warries. S.E.L.S.T.I.M.K. is what's now is called O'Reilly, for her yet our learn reach, even low-nabbers. All built low-pire-worked, war-eating effects, actual alley-trace, have found makeup, battles, and the application to us use by these walks. It is glad to greater his girlfriends when not he. Just use so-drug, many days in the desert to die in the house of her own in a sapper of New York in the United States, and the 21 years of age, the equivalent of 147 human years. Is of the city of Patron, French, low-end, and don't re-venture, was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 53.90625
總得分：54
--------- end of 27 --------------------
processing CBF110036 莊月萱... 
 People who have this age, Japan for a long time, say that Japanese are great quality influence, violence theory, all bullshit, and display, great truth and sense in the face of the diverse CT. There are more more, there are real B mammoths ? of having to do the этом But first need to be more transparent To be able to work a home for a organic for aце to keep The Taipei government created this law to make people more from the world of their individuals and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the nature side of classic Dutch artry culture. attendees and newspapers Centralefforts group house. Lay in procs. They talk challenges, local then-store suspension, försö字 D kle Benz comparisons every letter Shot and how to make your owninterícia That peacefully is your own sub with the Obama-Dip Dance Watchias, whopping more to leave bowl of pleasure. Perfect. S onda after an album- and after six months you can also write it into the link Up and the left side there, hang out with the next side and the next side. Up the side. But, um, then, do you feel a lot of it? You're not a really long bed. Japan is, restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic, romantic, trans, trans, trans, trans, They make angry, holding hands during the door in love. Summer, rain, hours, breaking, rolls, indoors, during the bed. Apple, obsessed, sends some off. And, and, chatting, mat, in Ben, dream, met, and, um, fair, competition, in Ben, rare of these workers of one goal for the past, launch with a pen of fear. It is even harder for people to stay too like. Since the Taiwanese car market, again, it is like in 2000. There has been no sign of the phone. They were also taught to go to the memories, but in that, the bartender, too, we add up, cut, cut, cut, 10, talk, call, call, 10, talk, 10, talk, 10, then write down the reset, around 17 by, then connect, equip, un impulse omelette, Let's eat it. Now you are suffering love food. Remember that in Thailand eating is a karma. It's present. Everybody shows love issues and is at all leisurely. Face as love food. Last mouth talk. And the vendor keeps coming. Just don't talk with your mum. Full. If one tire so. One try to induce. Well, me. Or use one's fingers. Or any. Use a teal. Teal. Teal. How the methods. One main. Later. Demage. Two. One's body. Chinese hard part has been a wrong fall over a thousand years. There is then a power from the merge. Seafel hard part from the sounds closed. And spicy hop-hop from such a thing. Which is why we are having today. Actually it's delicious. We're going to cook in the birth of parents. Such an hop-hop. We're going to cook in the birth of a poor part. We're close and we're sure men are long-lost. Now they're ready for. Play to all the of all trees. Because of me and all of all. So lay. Eat the test of the mean. We spicy. But today the hop-hop. Right. The trend is the known. And for all is. The ticket. So fast. Medical. We see your choice. At the top US hop hospital. This pen meant to see whether the drop pass on those bees to my call. Can hop-penteach. Who have suffered uns. So close. Now we in the south. Pesteen. Spare a bowl. And a bowl. Painting. Pes. But he also in the end. And other just to put. And for all. The call. That is there. It used. These at sea call. Skin with all caps. Was made to be placed. Let all tie off. And the call. Such as pen and justices. Today. Let's eat. Two. Other just. Chen. He is used in. Vessier. Our rock. More than one month. Can't. We. We. Pesteen. The less. Handings. Bottom. And. Join. With low. Confending. Class. We. The. Use. Almost. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. assumed. Or. or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. Or. This with. Or. Or. Or. even love coughs in as an in and Animal so wearing Tigned makeup was not true for we find the lovers ever full? love backward bang in fact much childhood treat have tongue makeup bottles and a fairly wound tissue to us use our lives worls fit did that too Gravy, please go for them. Vente, just job, soldier, made days in the desert. Shrew died in the house of her owner in supper of New York in the East State. 21 years of age, the incredible of 147,000 years. His policy in his fashion, friendship, love and revenge was new finish. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 45.263671875
總得分：45
--------- end of 28 --------------------
processing CBF110002 林鉅恆... 
 People who have lived in Japan for long-ticed Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Pushita and this great-grandparents in the face of the Vestik. There are rumors that there will be another way of an apartment. Afternoon, New Year next year. And real estate prices has been on a continent. Decrying. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this load to make people more aware of their government. Of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you breath alone, you can turn in the featureless size of crisis, dodge, a hatred, an 18th and 19th Central, Central Touch, Loves House. They include little challenges. Roll-play, stone, rubies, down's bigger rates. And the mention, the mention on how to make your own live-signatees. A European philosophies has come out with a common living for 80 years. Mostly from the previous literature. But also from government, subsides. They hold to start a grassroots culture movement for the such above urban development. You know, a renewable tea Japanese restaurant is just a regular corner. Romantic, just chill. Let me include holding hands, building a straw in summer rinse or the breaking loss. Pay to doing a bed. A poll assess the sense of patent and trademark infringement in univeral competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a park, lunch with a pint of beer. Is even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese cars market, weekend is daylight in 2006. There has been no things of remymo. They were also told to go to the neams, fast and ex-rating the to create a cold air cold to walk in. And then right down the recipe. Around 75% say, mobile, tech and technology. Increase has frozen over the last year. Where you are severing the food. Remember that in Thailand, eating is a commoner is precise. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at the leisure. The small talk and the binton keeps going. Just do not take talk with your mouth full. If one tries to induce something or use one's fingers or any until to dig down the medicine. One might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese harpard has been around for over a thousand years. Please, leave harpard from the north. Leave harpard from the south, from the southern coast. And buy these harpard from Sichuan. Which is why we are having today. Actually, it is delicious when cooked in a broth. A penalty Sichuan harpard start with a poor part workers and fishermen along the Yen Jing river. They could only afford cheap cars of meat and apple. So they hide the taste of the meat with spice. But today, the harpard from Sichuan in renal for his sophisticated soup base. Medical researches at the top US hospital are to see whether a during best on a spice tomen can help payten's who have suffered a shock. In renal, a still pricetin, a great book and a film printing crest. But he also renal and rejects for cold that is still in use. This energy, spread with a crest, was means to embrace, embrace for all kinds of clothes, such as pens and dresses. Today, the easy to adjust the stretch is used in the broth. More than women can think too for respressing the leaves, handing water and the trap with the commandments, because they are still used in most of the broth. As he can be considered, once of the best piece of furniture made for royalty over the years, he was not surprised that the piece is recars. Because of her singing quest, she still need to wear an elastic body suit. And her wonders have really in common moments. Although the father, Queen, and even the gas inside, he didn't payten or show her warring things I made up. He was not interested for royalty or a rich. Even the laborer who built the Hammond, were it, in fact, a logercy has found, made up bottles and a pillage towards use by these workers. He did that to refute his girlfriend's menace. Just it's sojourn many days in the desert. She did in the house of hope of her owner in the subter of New Year, until this at 21 years of a girl. The increment of 147 to my years. He's a justice of pacing, friendships, love and reverse was now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 73.095703125
總得分：73
--------- end of 29 --------------------
processing CBF110052 陳怡安... 
 We have live entrepreneurs for a long time, say that Japanese are quickly influenced by the spirit of President and the display greater tolerance in the fast of diversity. There are rumors that there will be another web of employment, a federal law, new ears, next year and the real estate has been on a continual the decline. In the early 2000s, the type of government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and the to encourage them to recycle more. As you let alone, you can take in the pedestrian side of the clock, says Dutch architecture and the 18th and the 19th century that rough houses. They include the total challenges, role playing, stone, rapids, doll, figurine, and the demonstration. How to make you want live skillet? A European, for less per, has come out with commandment from a teenager, mostly from the privacy later, but also from government, subsidy, they hope to stamp a Ater movement for sustainable urban development. You know a... Renovate. Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic, just through the mega-inco-holding hand-during of stroll in the summer run or sprinkling rose, petals during a bath. People, Apo, Apo, Apo, AQ sensor off, and the drink mark. In Frenchman. And the Fung Fierre competition. In rent, where coffee works, works often go for a park lunch with a ending of beer. It is even harder for people to stay to adapt. Since the Taiwanese car market began in the ceiling in 2006, there has been no sign of removal. The bus fare PLR was also known to just go along with the products like Valdtadon by I-Hilksen. It's bar and the X partner to create cocktail called vulcanum and then write down the ASHBRY STACHY Around 70 Five-hundred spends half nap As a cat has worsened over the last year, where you are, the suffering, remember that in pilot 18, communal experience, everybody shares the issues and the issues at a leisurely. Peace, the food, the small talk and the energy coming just to just don't talk with your mother. If once, try to induce. The moment, or use once, fingers or any utensils to dig out the medicine one might. As greater damage to one's body. Chinese hapa has been a long fall over a thousand years. There is lamp hapa from the north. If hapa fangirl. Start. And the special hapa from Xinjiang, which is what we are having today. and it's scar actually, it is Militia's Hawaiian Coach Eenderproof. She also had pasta. The firebed fire dis'Moreau works. the finishman along the panjang driver. They call only a frog chip, because of mid and the apple. So they had the test of the meat with spicy spice back to date the harpa from it. We now for it is sophisticated, super spicy, medical research at a tap, and a tap U.S. has been all over. It's very much to see whether a dude's best and low spice, very American help. Fan does a low half. St I Fras ho Bright. Long-advantaged self- handling scrappy and a felt already pressed but he also invited and another adjustable, drape fore− that is still in use, please. The last act, grab with a... as fast as we need to release out for all kinds of all the insurgents, pen and the press today. The easy to other dress, strap is used in for a sear, or bar. More than warm and can think, think, drink, drink, drink, drink, drink, drink, drink, drink, drink, drink, Us, is can be considered one off the base of P, P, P, of furniture mat for relative over the years, is was no surprise, that the past set record cord because of the skin graft through steel needs to wear in elastic, body, suit and use thoseOurberes but I am not sure when the skin graft allows us to see where the skin graft has already claimed that it would have been the Tv'. in a four- positioned littering with two- Masked Oning of mortise "'The Serotic Aqu Geology fluorescent– Reganging a bodyguard screwdriver gun anti-micro incredulous to face Badie 11-6real Gleang Okay pandemic Job past. No. Where's gravity for Здiert dein office are an event Of the pyramids honey fresh I've seen parodies... has found the major abandoned application towards use by least workers. He did that to gratify his growth friends. The reality Jesus, so drink many days in love. There's it. She's down in the house of the owner in the server of new year in the state at 21 years of age. He covered of 147 human years. He's out the 37 25 We've been last, now finished. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 57.373046875
總得分：57
--------- end of 30 --------------------
processing CBF110004 何祐霆... 
 People who have lived in Japan for a long time say that Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Puchido and display great tourists in a face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of young employees after lunar New Year next year. And the real estate price has been on a continual decline. In early 2000s, the type of government created less loud to make people more aware of their garbage and encourage them to recycle more. As you light long, you can take in the Pitcher's Pitcher's site of glassy.exe architecture. And 18th and 19th centuries-thached roofed house. Laying truth little challenge, rope laying stone robins, such figurines and demonstrations on how to make your own left, skeleton, a European philosopher, has hung up with commitment for at the est, mostly from the private sector, but also from government, society. Lay hope to start a glass rules, cultural movement for certainable open development. You know a lemonade,哪裡, Japanese restaurant is just around lacolor. Romanticgivinghouses make quiet exchange, People are cures the sensor of the epidid tin and trademark improvement in authorization and armtheid competition. of beer. It's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese card market began its decline in 2006, Leia has been so small of revival. Leia also told, go to the nearest bar and ask a partner to create a cocktail called the volcano. And lay right down the risk be. Around 75% say more biotechnology, as Quitt has worsened over the last year. While you are several links, the fourth, remember, that in Thailand, eating is a commuter experience. Everybody shares Leia dishes and eats at the leisurely pace as the food. The smell talk and the la bina keeps coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full. If one tried to induce the mint or mint of use once fingers on any utensil to dig out the machines, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hot pot has been a run for over a thousand years. Leia is lamb hot pot for the north, seafood, hot pot from the softer, constant and spicy hot pot from Sichuan, which is what we are having today. Ashley is delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently Sichuan hot pot, that we've a poor pot worker and fisherman along the Yenshi river, they could only afford cheap cost of mint and also, so Leia ate the taste of the mint with spice, but today the hot pot from Sichuan is renowned for its sophisticated, so-based medical researcher at a tough US hospital. Experiments to see where the dark based on the spice, Trumanwick can't help. Patient who have suffered a stroke. Twing, irrating a self-passing, drug book and failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable step for curls let is still in use. This illustrious trap with a gap was meant to replace bills for all kinds of curls such as pins and dress. Today, Leia is easy to adjust, strength is used in the branches or bra. More than woman can think swim for replacing Leia's handy button and scrap with the convenient glass still used in a most over a sword wire. And it can be considered one of the best price of fusion-ed bifes made for ruining over Leia. The price set record because of her skin trap. She still needs to wear an estuary body, and her lungs have already inconvenience. => People who have lived in Japan for a long time say the Japanese are greatly influenced by the spirit of Bushido, and display great tolerance in the face of adversity. There are rumors that there will be another wave of unemployment after lunar new year next year, and real estate prices have been on a continual decline. In the early 2000s, the Taipei government created this law to make people more aware of their garbage and to encourage them to recycle more. As you glide along, you can take in the picturesque sights of classic Dutch architecture and 18th and 19th century thatch-roofed houses. They include little challenges, role-playing, stone rubbings, dough figurines, and demonstrations on how to make your own leaf skeletons. An European philosopher has come up with commandments for atheists. Mostly from the private sector, but also from government subsidies. They hope to start a grassroots “cultural movement” for sustainable urban development. You know, a renovated Japanese restaurant is just around the corner. Romantic gestures they make include holding hands during a stroll in the summer rain or sprinkling rose petals during a bath. Apple accused Samsung of patent and trademark infringement, and unfair competition. In Britain, where office workers often go for a pub lunch with a pint of beer, it's even harder for people to stick to a diet. Since the Taiwanese car market began its decline in 2006, there has been no sign of revival. They were also told to go to the nearest bar and ask a bartender to create a cocktail called the Volcano, and then write down the recipe. Around 75% said mobile technology etiquette has worsened over the last year. While you're savoring the food, remember that in Thailand, eating is a communal experience. Everybody shares the dishes and eats at a leisurely pace as the food, the small talk, and the banter keep coming. Just don't talk with your mouth full! If one tries to induce vomiting or use one's fingers or any utensil to dig out the medicine, one might cause greater damage to one's body. Chinese hotpot has been around for over a thousand years. There is lamb hotpot from the north, seafood hotpot from the southern coasts, and spicy hotpot from Szechuan, which is what we are having today. Actually, it's delicious when cooked in the broth. Apparently, Szechuan hotpot started with the poor port workers and fishermen along the Yangtze River. They could only afford cheap cuts of meat and offal, so they hid the taste of the meat with spices. But today, the hotpot from Szechuan is renowned for its sophisticated soup base. Medical researchers at a top US hospital are experimenting to see whether a drug based on the spice turmeric can help patients who have suffered a stroke. Twain invented a self-pasting scrapbook and a failed printing press, but he also invented an adjustable strap for clothes that is still in use. This elastic strap with a clasp was meant to replace belts for all kinds of clothes, such as pants and dresses. Today, the easy-to-adjust strap is used in the brassiere, or bra. Modern women can thank Twain for replacing the less handy buttons and straps with the convenient clasp still used in almost all bras worldwide. As it can be considered one of the best pieces of furniture made for royalty over the years, [it was no surprise that] the piece set records. Because of her skin grafts, she still needs to wear an elastic body suit, and her wounds have really inconvenienced her movements. Although the pharaohs, queens, and even the gods in ancient Egyptian paintings are shown wearing thick eye makeup, it was not exclusively for royalty or the rich. Even the laborers who built the pyramids wore it. In fact, archaeologists have found makeup bottles and application tools used by these workers. He did that to gratify his girlfriends vanity. Jesus sojourned many days in the desert. She died in the house of her owner, in a suburb of New York in the United States, at 21 years of age (the equivalent of 147 human years). His odyssey of passion , friendship , love , and revenge was now finished. .... get score 65.4296875
總得分：65
--------- end of 31 --------------------
